This is new content for Amnesty International
(500+words)
All people have fundamental human rights. But those rights are abused or denied every single day. 
When that happens, Amnesty International finds the facts, exposes what’s happening, and rallies people together to force governments and others to respect everyone’s human rights.
And we get results.
Last year alone, Amnesty International helped free 153 people who were wrongfully imprisoned because of who they are or what they believe – 
and we changed laws in dozens of countries on refugees, reproductive rights, LGBT equality, free speech, the death penalty, and other critical human rights issues. 
From start to finish, our work focuses on the individual – people whose human rights are abused, and people who have the power to change the world.
We received the Nobel Peace Prize for our life-saving work.

Amnesty International (commonly known as Amnesty or AI) is a London-based non-governmental organization focused on human rights. 
The organization claims to have over 7 million members and supporters around the world.
The stated objective of the organization is "to conduct research and generate action to prevent and end abuses of human rights, and to demand justice for those whose rights have been violated. "
Amnesty International was founded in London in 1961, following the publication of the article "The Forgotten Prisoners" in The Observer on 28 May 1961,[4] by the lawyer Peter Benenson.
Amnesty draws attention to human rights abuses and campaigns for compliance with international laws and standards. It works to mobilize public opinion to put pressure on governments that let abuse take place.
Amnesty considers capital punishment to be "the ultimate, irreversible denial of human rights".
The organization was awarded the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize for its "defence of human dignity against torture",[6] and the United Nations Prize in the Field of Human Rights in 1978.[7]
In the field of international human rights organizations, Amnesty has the third longest history, after the International Federation for Human Rights and broadest name recognition, and is believed by many to set standards for the movement as a whole.[8]
Amnesty International is largely made up of voluntary members, but retains a small number of paid professionals. In countries in which Amnesty International has a strong presence, members are organized as "sections". 
Sections co-ordinate basic Amnesty International activities normally with a significant number of members, some of whom will form into "groups", and a professional staff. Each have a board of directors.
In 2005 there were 52 sections worldwide. "Structures" are aspiring sections. They also co-ordinate basic activities but have a smaller membership and a limited staff.
In countries where no section or structure exists, people can become "international members".
Two other organizational models exist: "international networks", which promote specific themes or have a specific identity, and "affiliated groups", which do the same work as section groups, but in isolation.[65]
The organizations outlined above are represented by the International Council (IC) which is led by the IC Chairperson
. Members of sections and structures have the right to appoint one or more representatives to the Council according to the size of their membership. 
The IC may invite representatives from International Networks and other individuals to meetings, but only representatives from sections and structures have voting rights. 
The function of the IC is to appoint and hold accountable internal governing bodies and to determine the direction of the movement. The IC convenes every two years.
The International Board (formerly known as the International Executive Committee [IEC]), led by the International Board Chairperson, consists of eight members and the International Treasurer.
It is elected by, and accountable to, the IC, and meets at least two times during any one year and in practice meets at least four times a year. 
The role of the International Board is to take decisions on behalf of Amnesty International, implement the strategy laid out by the IC, and ensure compliance with the organization's statutes.







This is for Intervarsity
(500+ words)
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship/USA is an inter-denominational, evangelical Christian campus ministry founded in 1941, working with students and faculty on U.S. college and university campuses. 
In the 2016-2017 school year, 1,597 campus staff members served 38,404 students and faculty in 1,015 chapters on 687 campuses in the United States.
InterVarsity is a charter member of the International Fellowship of Evangelical Students, a network of similar campus ministries around the world.

History of Intervarsity:
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship/USA became an official organization in November, 1941. 
But it traces its roots to a movement of British university students, starting at Cambridge University in 1877. 
The movement spread to Canada before reaching the U.S.
In 1938 Stacey Woods, the Canadian Inter-Varsity director, met with students on the University of Michigan campus. 
As an immediate result of that visit, students formed the first InterVarsity chapter in the United States. 
InterVarsity's first three staff members came on loan from Canada, and Stacey Woods served as the organization's General Secretary (CEO). 
In 1947 InterVarsity USA became one of ten founding members of the International Fellowship of Evangelical Students, a federation of national Christian student movements. 
By 1950 there were 35 staff workers serving students in 499 InterVarsity chapters and by the early seventies, the on-campus staff had grown to more than 200.

Bible study has always been an important part of InterVarsity's campus ministry. 
InterVarsity staff worker Paul Byer is credited with developing the Manuscript Study method of inductive Bible study,
a useful tool for inductive Bible studies.[13] After graduating from the University of Southern California with a degree in architecture,
Byer became one of the leading forces in InterVarsity, as both a campus staff worker and as the West Coast Regional Director,
and was the developer of the Manuscript Study method.[14] Through his innovative approach to Bible Study, extensive mentoring, and long tenure he helped shape the theology and culture of the entire movement.
The Manuscript Study method continues to be used heavily by InterVarsity as one of many tools to help students investigate and learn from the teachings of the Bible.
Other early staff members laid more of the foundation for InterVarsity's commitment to Bible study. Jane Hollingsworth learned inductive Bible study in seminary and in turn trained staff members in the 1940s.
She wrote the first Bible study guide published by InterVarsity, Discovering the Gospel of Mark.
In the 1960s, veteran staff member Barbara Boyd developed what became the Bible and Life Training Courses, experienced by decades of students.


Of the 667 campuses where InterVarsity is present, many have multiple chapters which focus might individually on Greek life students, international students, nursing students, graduate students, athletes, artists, and members of ethnic minorities, or be more generalized depending on the campus.
These include 71 ethnic-specific chapters ministering to Blacks, Asians, Native Americans, Filipinos, and Latinos. Of the 39,956 active InterVarsity students, 16,658, or 42%, identify themselves as ethnic minority or multiracial students. 
InterVarsity has 219 Asian American staff, 80 Black/African American staff, 63 Hispanic/Latino staff, six American Indian or Alaskan Native staff, four Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander staff, and 38 “two or more races” staff.

UVM Intervarsity:
We serve on trips to New Orleans, Dominican Republic and Uganda, engage with discussions on Jesus, 
host talks on global justice issues, seek transformation, enjoy music, create art, eat, laugh, 
gather around bonfires, retreat, live, worship, help others on their spiritual journeys, 
play, pray, love, work for justice, road trip, give, invite, pursue God, and revolutionize the world with, love, service and justice.


Feel Good

FeelGood was founded in 2005 by Kristin Walter and a group of cross-country runners at the University of Texas at Austin. 
Inspired by the work of The Hunger Project and its philosophy that ending hunger is not about feeding “a billion hungry mouths,” 
but rather about “unleashing the talents and 
spirits of a billion human beings able to end their own hunger”—Kristin and her friends looked for a way to get involved and contribute.
Their idea: offer fellow students grilled cheese sandwiches in exchange for a donation,
and invest the proceeds in organizations with a proven track record of sustainable, gender-based hunger-eradication.
In less than 6 months, they raised $10,000. Not only that, they discovered that a grilled cheese sandwich had the power to start some amazing conversations about hunger, and how we can end it.
Today, we’re a national movement of social entrepreneurs for the end of extreme poverty, with chapters across the country.
Every year FeelGood students initiate thousands of conversations and raise tens of thousands of dollars, all for the most critical global issue of our time.

FeelGood is a youth-led movement turning college into a time of effective global action. On campuses across the country, students run a successful social enterprise—a grilled cheese deli— to raise money and build public support for the end of extreme hunger and poverty. 
In the process students gain critical business, leadership and teamwork skills that serve them throughout their lives.


Every dollar students raise is invested in the Commitment 2030 Fund: 
A select group of organizations working to fulfill the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): a global initiative to eliminate extreme hunger and poverty by achieving an economically prosperous, socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable human presence on the planet by 2030.

Why Grilled Cheese?
1.	It’s simple. Grilled cheese are easy to make – nearly anyone can do it! And, when we’re using grilled cheese as a means to engage in complex dialogue around what it takes to end extreme poverty…the simpler the better!
2.	It’s easy to source ingredients locally. 
3.	It’s nostalgic. In North America, at least, grilled cheese is a comfort food, one you likely ate growing up. We want FeelGood customers to have an emotional connection to the food we serve. When you feel at home, you’re more comfortable having conversations about challenging topics, 
like what it really takes to end extreme poverty by 2030.
4.	It’s vegetarian. There are PLENTY of delicious grilled cheese recipes that require no meat whatsoever. 
There is a clear and compelling connection between issues of extreme poverty with the environment, and serving vegetarian food is one simple way to align our enterprising activity with the UN’s Global Goals. Many FeelGood chapters also serve up vegan sandwiches.
How to Join?
Everyone is invted to attend weekly meetings: Monday at 7pm! 

To join , send an email to and ask to be put on the listserv! 
You can volunteer deli shifts, special events, or a combination! 

If you can't come to a meeting or volunteer, stop by the kiosk and grab a sammie! 

If you are a member of another club or organization and would like to partner with us, be sure
to send an email!

5.	We could always use an extra hand, both at regular delis and special events!


